
paddy
agriculture
Also known as: rice paddy
Agriculture is practiced more in Kodagu, characteristically and historically, paddy fields are found on the slopy surface, with coffee and pepper agroforestry in the surrounding hills mainly near Madikeri. The most common plantation crop is coffee, especially coffee robusta variety. Kodagu is the second coffee production region in India, after the Baba Budangiri hills in Chikmagalur district. Coffee revenue has helped Kodagu to become one of the richest districts in India.
 
paddy, also called rice paddy, small, level, flooded field used to cultivate rice in southern and eastern Asia. Wet-rice cultivation is the most prevalent method of farming in the Far East, where it utilizes a small fraction of the total land yet feeds the majority of the rural population. Rice was domesticated as early as 3500 BC, and by about 2,000 years ago it was grown in almost all of the present-day cultivation areas, predominantly deltas, floodplains and coastal plains, and some terraced valley slopes.

Many paddies are flooded by rivers and rainfall during monsoon season, while others must be irrigated. The paddies have an impermeable subsoil and are bordered by earthen bunds to hold an average of 4–6 inches (10–15 centimetres) of water in the field for three-quarters of the growing season. In all countries, excluding India, paddies are worked by family labour alone and by the same methods as were used 2,000 years ago: hand cultivation with hoe and spade, or water-buffalo-, horse-, or ox-drawn plough with metal share.

The paddy transplantation and sowing activities have been completed in Virajpet taluk and the farmers are hopeful of a good yield during the Kharif season. With the region experiencing good showers, the farmers have taken up paddy cultivation on 9,837 hectares in six hoblis in Virajpet taluk, including Ponnampet. Farmers have sown the seeds of Tunga, RNR, Tanu, BR-2655, IR-64, Jaya, Uma and other varieties
Atheera variety has been preferred by the farmers for the quantity of paddy straw that it fetches.
St Annamma Church authorities have cultivated paddy on 30 acres of land in Arji village.



bamboo
Dendrocalamus brandisii (Munro) Kurz., synonym Bambusa brandisii Munro, locally known
as ‘Burma bamboo’ was first introduced in Coorg District, Karnataka in 1913 as per records. It
has since then been preferred for cultivation in homesteads by enterprising farmers mainly
due to its large size, straight growth habit and thornless nature in sharp contrast to other local
bamboo species like D.strictus and B.bambos. In addition to traditional uses such as for
ladders and for basket weaving, this species is currently used widely as fencing poles for
ginger cultivation in upland paddy fields. Burma bamboo is one of the giant bamboo species
found in India, the other being Dendrocalamus giganteus. The National Mission on Bamboo
Application (NMBA, Government of India) has identified 15 commercially important bamboo
species based on properties and assessment of inherent characteristics matching with end
uses (Anonymous, 2003). Dendrocalamus brandisii is recognized as one among most
valuable multipurpose bamboo species in India. Burma bamboo being a fast growing species
has potential in farm forestry, social forestry and agro forestry in humid tropics (Anonymous,
2005).
The economics of cultivation of this species has been worked out based on cultivation
practices prevalent in Coorg district of Karnataka. The profitability of D. brandisii cultivation to
primary stakeholders was assessed through a Benefit-Cost Analysis (BCA) taking into
account all expenditures incurred and revenues generated under a project in order to assess
the ability of the project to meet its financial obligations and to assess the incentives to
producers (Viswanath et al., 2007). The criteria used for assessment include Net Present
Value (NPV), Benefit-Cost (B/C) ratio and Land Expectation Value (LEV). Besides examining
the viability of raising bamboo monoculture plantation, a comparison with other possible
landuses in unused paddy fields in Coorg including intercropped bamboo plantations was
also conducted to determine the financially optimal landuse there. The following feasible
alternative landuses were identified through detailed discussions with farmers and
consultations with experts from College of Forestry, Ponnampet, Coorg (Annexure)

Culms of Dendrocalamus brandisii are mainly used in construction, making furniture, farm
implements, baskets, handicrafts and for making 'chandraki' in sericulture industry. It has
potential for making incense sticks in agarbatti industry. Young shoots are edible and can be
pickled or used in local cuisine. Due to its good physical and mechanical properties and thorn
less nature, it provides scope for introduction in suitable agroclimatic zones like in Coorg for
raising compact plantations, in landscaping and in homesteads 


